You can catch me on Twitter,
if you build something amazing or
you get totally stuck or you need
some kind of a review or whatever.
I try to make myself as available
as I possibly can to the community.
I do like to eat, I do like to sleep and
I'd like to see my family on occasion.
So, again,
schedule permitting that I absolutely I
love to answer questions,
I love to interact.
You can catch me on Twitter at
simpleton as well as LinkedIn please
send a connection request.
And this is absolutely,
I would say last year I had
the opportunity to do enterprise patterns
where I talked at length about
the four elements of programming.
And we were able to build that
out into some really cool stuff.
And this is I think my second love
letter to the development community and
programming in general.
So to that end,
I think this is super powerful,
I use these techniques a lot, and
I feel like the joke I make is,
take these ideas and
go make a lot of money.
And seriously go make money with this,
and when you do,
let me know about it, because that
to me is one of the best outcomes.
Is that you've found a way to convert
this into a valuable outcome and
you're being compensated
via monetary gains.
Or you could barter for
chickens or cows or
whatever oftentimes I do actually
barter my services but with that said,
if you do something amazing,
I would love to hear about it.
>> How would you create a mock
API that is not hard coded,
how do you sync it with real code?
>> The only thing that it's hard
coded in this particular example
is the interface itself.
And so in that sense,
you absolutely want to have
a clear API contract or
a data contract with whatever or
whoever you're interacting
with to consume.
When I think about hard coding,
the only thing for
me that is hard coded in the sense
of canonical truth is the interface.
From there,
everything else should be dynamic,
or should have the ability to be dynamic,
but
the interface itself is non negotiable.
I would say as well if you're doing
automated end to end testing,
that you want to have the ability
to mock your data out and
test against mock data in cypress versus
having to hit a real
server every single time.
This is going to be the difference
between your test running in
let's say ten minutes and
five hours in some cases.
That you actually should have the ability
to run a test against a real API but
you also need to have the option
to run it against a mock
API that honors the contract.
So, to that end,
I would say when we talk about hardcoding
that the thing that you actually
have to be crystal clear,
it's sacrosanct, it is almost wholly,
is that you have to honor the contract
that needs to be written in stone.
I say that a little bit facetiously but
if somebody changes the contract,
there's going to be a lot of problems.
But from there we're programmers and
we can generate anything off of that.
So hopefully I was able to
answer that question is that,
rarely do I hard code things if possible
and sometimes I will, if it's appropriate.
But more often than not,
once I understand what the contract is,
then I mean, I can generate a mock API.
And you'll notice here like, if I refresh
this and hopefully this will work.
And let's see if we can get this to go,
Because this should actually think
I go between 3 and 12 and so
occasionally you'll see a word just as 3.
The length here is actually dynamic and
so it's even how many am I get, well,
I don't know because it's dynamic.
And so that's where program against
the interface everything else or
hard code the interface or
make hard assumptions about the interface.
Everything else should be dynamic.
>> How easy is it to maintain these
templates inside an organization,
like where do you draw the line between
building the components directly
rather than working on the generator.
>> So the question is how easy is
it to maintain the templates and
kind of a tangent intent question
is where do we draw the line
between working on the generator and
working on the templates?
And so easy is absolutely
relative with that said,
it is a lot easier here
when you have a clearly
defined set of coding standards and
conventions that your
organization adheres to.
And if you are having trouble finding
a good place to capture some kind of
convention and automate around that.
The question that I would ask or
what I would want to discover
with you is your code,
written in such a way,
do you have the right abstractions?
Is your code fine grained enough
to allow it to be automated?
Is it a candidate for that, so
now to just kind of summarize this,
is that when you have clear
consistent guidelines that
people follow,
you can treat your code generators like
every other piece of code
in your organization.
And so even in the sense of
you'll notice that all my
generators that they followed
a specific interface.
Well now, anybody could write a generator,
give it to me, and I could plug it in.
And so again,
this is where establishing that contract.
So, for me, and hopefully you've seen how
this works the wizard behind the curtain.
I could write a generator from scratch,
in well,
at least as long as this workshop and
actually much less.
And then write various templates
to put into the generator and
output code,
that when you do it correctly,
effort goes down is your skill and
your perception goes up.
So, I would say even on a personal level,
and
you could just do this it's your own desk,
keep it as a magic trick if you want.
That, I'm hoping that when you
look at what we've done today,
you realize that what I'm proposing that
some of this stuff would take 10 minutes.
I mean we saw how long it
took me to turn the Axions
snippet of code into a reusable template.
And so
now when you start to factor in that,
it actually is less effort
to have a good set of
templates in good, well architected code.
I think that the cost of
investment becomes negligible.
In other words, it cost very little and
the upside is so
high that I'm really hoping that the light
bulbs went on for a few of us today.
And this is something that's like,
we are going to start doing this is just
part of our regular development workflow.
And so, again, ECS is relative,
but I believe in ECS for
me my experience is that it's
a lot easier to actually even
individually to generate
the conventional stuff.
So you can focus on
the stuff that's important.
Any tips or techniques for
dealing with non trivial data types?
One, realize that when you're
dealing with a complex data model,
that it's still just a data model.
And more importantly is that
the complexity is probably not in
the data model but
it's in the business rules that govern how
you mutate that data model
that's been my experience.
And treat that piece or
any of the complexity is a candidate for
isolation and optimization by removing
the things that are unnecessary,
consolidating the things
that are duplicated, and
then automating the things
that are conventional.
So the question is with mock data,
what I recommend using
tools like mock service worker or
any number of the ones that exist?
I know for instance, there's one
that my friend Wes Grimes wrote for
nest, and it's called In-memory DB.
And what it does basically is takes
an interface or a model definition and
it generates a bunch of mock
data in memory for an SAPI.
And the answer is
absolutely that if there's
a tool that achieves
the outcome that you're
looking for, leverage that to the max.
Even there's a number of
things in terms of just
even testing of generating mocks for test.
If that enhances or
accelerates your ability
to build things that people love,
absolutely use it.
No, there was, without reservation,
that's what we're here for.
It's how fast and how effectively
can we build relevant things.
And so obviously it wouldn't make
sense to turn this into a wire
cutter style dissertation,
I give this one an eight out of 10 and
whatever is that there's so
many great tools out there.
I couldn't possibly even begin
to touch the tip of the iceberg.
But again, use the tools that
are available and leverage them.
And realize that a lot of times
you get this not invented here
syndrome worse like we didn't write it so
we're gonna rewrite it.
Even individuals there are certain people
that just have an aversion to JavaScript
frameworks or frameworks in general.
And I would love to talk to one of these
individuals, or if I ever met someone and
honestly try to understand
what their workflow is like.
Because I suspect that what
they're doing is creating a quasi
JavaScript framework every single
time that they create a project.
And so at least for me, because my
identity is not wrapped up into like,
I'm an Angular developer,
or I'm a react developer.
So now I'm constrained by those
limiting belief is that really I think,
for me is I wanna build great stuff
that people love, and being very candid.
I learned that lesson the hard way when,
in the first 10 years of my career
when I was a flash developer.
And that is how I identified
my that was baked into my
identity is that I am
a flash flex developer.
And I learned very quickly that that
is a very precarious position to
be in is that we are identity is not
baked into tools or our framework.
Or even what we do for a living,
it's amazing how when you ask somebody,
so what do you do for a living?
And without splitting hairs or becoming
pedantic is a lot of times they'll say,
I'm an Angular developer or
I'm a React developer or whatever.
And it's, like, that's interesting that,
people that's what they say is like I am
a, and then they'll insert some framework.
So a little bit,
kinda a philosophical twist in there but
to that end the underlying ideas that
our identity is not baked in the tools
that we use it's the things that we do and
the tools only support that